Support perfetto in celer-g4 (#1741)
celeritas-project/celeritas: doc/usage/execution/profiling.rst

to annotate the different sections of the code, allowing for fine-grained
profiling and improved visualization.

Tracing events in Celeritas
---------------------------

Celeritas includes a number of NVTX, HIP, and Perfetto events that can be used to
trace different aspects of the code execution. These events are enabled

> when ``CELER_ENABLE_PROFILING`` is set. All profiling backends (CUDA, HIP, and Perfetto)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
when the environment variable ``CELER_ENABLE_PROFILING`` (see :ref:`environment`) is set.
All profiling backends (CUDA, HIP, and Perfetto)
```

> support both Timeline, and Counter events detailed belowed, except for Counters not supported when HIP is used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
support both Timeline and Counter events detailed below, except that HIP does not support Counters.
```

Profiling backends allow grouping various events into "namespaces" (NVTX/HIP domains, Perfetto categories) so that users can selectively enable events they are interested in. Celeritas groups all events in the "celeritas" namespace.

Slices
^^^^^^

> Detailed timing of each step iteration is recorded with slices events in Celeritas. The step slice contains nested Slices

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Detailed timing of each step iteration is recorded with "slices" events in Celeritas. The step slice contains nested Slices
```

for each action composing the step, some actions such as along-step actions contain more nested slices for fine-grained profiling.

In addition to the slices in the simulation loop, slices events are also recorded when setting up the problem (e.g. detector construction)

Counters
^^^^^^^^

> Celeritas provides a few counter events. Currently:
> 
> - active, alive, and dead tracks at each step iteration
> - number of hits in a step

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Celeritas provides a few counter events. Currently it writes:

- active, alive, and dead track counts at each step iteration, and
- the number of hits in a step.
```

requires starting external services. Details on how to setup the system services can be found in
the `Perfetto documentation`_. Root access on the system is required.

Integration with user applications
----------------------------------

> When using a CUDA or HIP backend, there is nothing that needs to be done on the user-side.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using a CUDA or HIP backend, there is nothing that needs to be done on the user side.
```

      session.start()
   }

As mentioned above, Perfetto can either profile application events only, or application and system events.
The system-level profiling requires starting external services. Details on how to setup the system services can be found in the `Perfetto documentation`_. Root access on the system is required.

> When the tracing session is started with a filename, the application-level profiling is used, and written to the specified file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the tracing session is started with a filename, the application-level profiling is used and written to the specified file.
```

Omitting the filename will use the system-level profiling, in which case you must have the external Perfetto tracing processes started. The container in ``scripts/docker/interactive`` provides an example Perfetto configuration for tracing both system-level and celeritas events.

> Similarly to the NVTX / ROCTX scenario, if your application already uses Perfetto, you can exclude Celeritas events by excluding the "celeritas" category.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As with NVTX and ROCTX, if your application already uses Perfetto, you can exclude Celeritas events by excluding the "celeritas" category.
```
